The closing of MilkBoy Arthouse did not stop The Clarice Smith Performing Arts
Center from hosting its own events, but it did shine a light on the need for a
lasting performing arts venue in the College Park, Md. community.

The performance space itself reopened its doors in 2017 as Milkboy Arthouse
following the closing of The Barking Dog, which was left vacant after it had
closed in November 2013 and failed to find a new tenant, according to The
Diamondback. 

The property’s reopening was the result of a “first-of-its-kind” partnership
between The Clarice and MilkBoy, a Philadelphia-based entertainment company.

The idea of a private company like MilkBoy partnering with a large organization,
like a university, seemed unprecedented and the company’s experience with both
the entertainment and restaurant industries made them “attractive” to work with,
said Erica Bondarev Rapach, the acting executive director of The Clarice. 

“They were music people first and then became interested in the idea of the food
and beverage side of the business and how they might marry those two,” Bondarev
Rapach said. “They have a lot of success with their enterprises in Philadelphia.” 

In December 2019, the venue abruptly closed its doors without any prior
announcement. On the venue’s website, MilkBoy released a statement in conjunction
with The Clarice that confirms the ending of the partnership.

The statement said: “We feel it has always been our responsibility to be present
in the community we value and create opportunities for community engagement with
our visiting artist program. MilkBoy helped pave the way for us to do that in
new and innovative ways, and we are grateful for their years of partnership.”  

Speculation as to why the venue closed began to spread shortly after students
heard the news, but Bondarev Rapach said the decision was not made by The
Clarice, but rather between MilkBoy and Terrapin Development Company, the
lessee of the property. She also said from her understanding, the venue had
encountered financial difficulties. 

“Milkboy is a small enough enterprise that they just didn’t have … deep enough
pockets to subsidize what was going on here for a long enough term to be able to
make it profitable,” she said. 

Petey Devaney, a member of the College Park-based band Higher Education, said
the band had a show scheduled at MilkBoy Arthouse for New Year’s Eve before it
closed. The band found out the venue had closed while they were on tour in
Vermont three days before the show. 

“Somebody hit me up and sent me something about MilkBoy closing and I looked over
at my agent, and he said ‘Yeah, I didn’t want to tell you guys before the show
but apparently they’re closing their doors,’” Devaney said. 

Devaney also said the venue closing did not surprise him because the venue has
been reopened multiple times, but with performance spaces like The Void, a DIY
music venue who took on the band’s New Year’s Eve show, and events like Art
Attack at the University of Maryland, there are only a few opportunities for
live music to thrive in the area. 

“Unless you get in with the right niche of people, there’s nowhere to play,”
Devaney said. “It’s strange that we call College Park our hometown and we don’t
really have a music scene right now.” 

Now operating under the name Arthouse for the spring 2020 semester, Bondarev
Rapach said The Clarice decided to keep the events they had booked previously
and even though the venue does not have a functional restaurant or bar area,
food and non-alcoholic drinks are provided at each event by UMD Dining Services. 

“I think we’ve learned that the community wants something like this,” Bondarev
Rapach said. “We imagined that space from the beginning to be a space where the
campus and the community can meet.” 
